## How Factom Secures Entries
Factom extends Bitcoin's feature set to record events outside of monetary transfers. Factom has a minimal ruleset for adding permanent Entries. Factom pushes most data validation tasks to the client side. The only validation Factom enforces are those required by the protocol to trade Factoids, convert Factoids to Entry Credits, and to ensure Entries are properly paid for and recorded.

> Factom has a few rules regarding token incentives for running the network and for internal consistency, but it cannot check the validity of statements recorded in the chains used by its users.

Bitcoin limits transactions to those moving value from a set of inputs to a set of outputs. Satisfying the script required of the inputs (generally requiring certain signatures) is enough for the system to ensure validity. This is a validation process that can be automated, so the auditing process is easy. If Factom were used, for instance, to record a deed transfer of real estate, Factom would be used to simply record the process occurred. The rules for real estate transfers are very complex. For example, a local jurisdiction may have special requirements for property if the buyer is a foreigner, farmer, or part time resident. A property might also fall into a number of categories based on location, price, or architecture. Each category could have its own rules reflecting the validation process for smart contracts. In this example, a cryptographic signature alone is insufficient to fully verify the validity of a transfer of ownership. Factom then is used to record the process occurred rather than validate transfers.

Bitcoin miners perform two primary tasks. First, they resolve double spends. Seeing two conflicting transactions that spend the same funds twice, they resolve which one is admissible. The second job miners perform (along with the other full nodes) is auditing. Since Bitcoin miners only include valid transactions, one that is included in the blockchain can be assumed to have been audited. A thin client does not need to know the full history of Bitcoin to see if value they receive has already been spent. (See SPV.)
