## Proving a Negative
Bitcoin, land registries, and many other systems need to solve a fundamental problem: proving a negative. They prove some “thing” has been transferred to one person, and prove that thing hasn't been transferred to someone else. While proof of the negative is impossible in an unbounded system, it is quite possible in a bounded system. Cryptocurrencies solve this problem by limiting the places where transactions can be found. Bitcoin transactions can only be found in the Bitcoin blockchain. If a relevant transaction is not found in the blockchain, it is defined from the Bitcoin protocol perspective not to exist and thus the BTC hasn't been sent twice (double spent).

Certain land ownership recording systems are similar. Assume a system where land transfer is recorded in a governmental registry and where the legal system is set up so that unrecorded transfers are assumed invalid (sans litigation). If an individual wanted to check if a title is clear (i.e., that no one else claims the land) the answer would be in the governmental registry. The individual using the government records could prove the negative; the land wasn't owned by a third party. Where registration of title is not required, the governmental registry could only attest to what has been registered. A private transfer might very well exist that invalidates the understanding of the registry.

In both of the above cases, the negative can be proven within a context. With Mastercoin the case is very strong. With a land registry, it is limited to the context of the Registry, which may be open to challenge. The real world is messy, and Factom is designed to accommodate not just the precision of digital assets, but the real world’s sometimes messy reality.

In Factom, there is a hierarchy of data categorization. Factom only records Entries in Chains; the various user-defined Chains have no dependencies that Factom enforces at the protocol level. This differs from Bitcoin, where every transaction is potentially a double-spend, and so it must be validated. By organizing Entries into Chains, Factom allows Applications to have smaller search spaces than if all Factom data were combined together into one ledger.

If Factom were to be used to manage land transfers, an Application using a Chain to record such registries could safely ignore Entries in the other Chains, such as those used to maintain security camera logs. Were a governmental court ruling to change a land registration, the relevant Chain would be updated to reflect the ruling. The history would not be lost, and where such changes are actually invalid from a legal or other perspective, the record cannot be altered to hide the order of events in Factom.
Nick Szabo has written about Property Clubs, which have many overlaps with this system. Here is a nugget from his paper "Secure Property Titles with Owner Authority":

> While thugs can still take physical property by force, the continued existence of correct ownership records will remain a thorn in the side of usurping claimants.
